All right, so let's go ahead and start putting together the infrastructure we need to be able to save
data into the database.
That way, we can see something like this right to be able to save seeds that we search for and add
them to our database so we can.
Then users in this case can go back and refer to them by clicking and show the information about that
city.
OK, so we're going to start, of course, from the beginning, the first thing we need to do is to
create that table, right?
Or in this case, the model class that will model after a favorite city.
So let's go to our project.
A lot of things here, of course, we have to remember that we must have.
All of the dependencies that we added earlier, so if you are just now following us, which I hope you
are not just now following us, remember that we have already added the foom dependencies and everything
that we need in order to use room.
So that's very important.
And so back here, what do we need to do?
Let's go to our model here and our model class.
I'm going to create a new class.
It's just going to be an actual data class, actually.
You know what to call these favor it.
OK.
There we have it.
So there's really much special about this class.
Except that we need to add some annotations here to tell the room database compiler to know that this
is not just any class, but it's also going to be part or the will be compiled into an entity.
So an entity is a table that we can add into our database to do so, it's for a simple say at, say,
entity such and voila.
This tells us that everything is set up in the back end, meaning we have a room dependency and everything.
So this entity can say, you can see here, says Android X.
That room, which tells us that it is a room.
Entity, what that means, then, is that we can pass out a method metadata inside, so I can say table
name, so I can now say, OK, I want this to be favorite or fav.
Tbal like this, right?
I like to always add a table for table whenever I create a table.
OK, so now entity is going to run it and say, OK, this class is not just any class is an entity,
which means is in lay terms is just a table that can be used with room.
OK.
All right, so next here in our constructor, we are going to add a few parameters if you were going
to add a few parameters.
The first prime is going to be actually one.
The first primary I'm going to the first parameter is going to be a city because for a fravor, because
we saving the favored city like the city name.
So in this case, there's going to be a string.
And the second one is going to be a country because I just want to save that to show later that, you
know, we have that country code there, just something I decided to do.
All right.
Same thing.
It's going to be a.
Let's not forget what outcome was there.
OK, now this is fine, but it's not complete because now we have to again, I penned I had a few annotations
here, so that room compiler will know what to do with all of this.
First of all, every table needs to have some sort of a primary key so that it can reference that key
whenever we want to get to that information.
Right.
So it's a unique key in this case for us.
I'm just going to make this actual primary key meaning that our city is going to be a primary key.
And next here, I'm going to ask Annotate to say, well, the city is also going to be a column because
we have columns and rows right for our tables entities.
So I'm going to say at column info like that in passing a few metadata here.
The name is going to be city now because city and city are the same.
There are the same name.
I don't really have to add a name if I didn't want to write because there have the same name.
The beauty here is that I can create a different column name if I wish to do so different from the actual
fields name.
But in this case, it's fine, which is going to keep it that way.
And I want to make sure also that is not known, right, that this primary key city should not be now.
Meaning we won't be able to save a all for city with sense because we don't want to save a favorite
novel city.
OK.
And so for country, I'm going to do different and for a country here, all I have to pass is just the
column info and pass the name.
Just going to see a country like this.
There we go.
And just like that, we've created an entity that will use for our room database.
And that's it.
In the background and the room compiler will know what to do with everything and set everything up for
us.
So let's look at the diagram because it's always helpful.
So we said that we're going to follow this structure here because it helps us to compartmentalize,
to create entities to create, in this case, layers that will help us in the future if we wish to make
this more complex.
Right.
But also, it just gives us a a scaffolding per se so that we can use anytime we want to create a database
room database, right?
So always follow something similar to this.
At least it's very important.
Now we said that in order for us to connect or database, in order for us to interface with our database,
we need to create a Dow down just any interface class that access our object.
So data access object, which means all he does, it has the functions that will allow us to do all
the queries, all the reading, updating and so forth to our SQL like database, which in turn has entities.
OK, so we are working here in this area right now.
Let's go ahead and create that.
So far now I'm going to create that inside of our data.
OK, so you guys like class and it's going to be an interface, so I'm going to say weather now and
notice the naming is very important here.
Right?
The app is weather and Dow is their access object.
It's very important to have those and these name naming conventions here, because then it's easy for
us to know what this is when we look at it.
OK, so weather now, what do we do?
Well, the first thing we need to do, of course, is to make sure again annotated to say this is a
Dow class, right?
It's an Android Excel room Dow.
And so Android will know exactly what this is in the background.
OK.
And here is where are we going to add all of the queries and all sort of things that we need to interface
with their base because their base really all we're doing is creating an item is updating that item
is leading.
That item is so create, read, update, delete, cried.
That's all we're doing.
OK?
So we need to create infrastructure in these cases and interface, or we need to create the classic
or in this case, the functions that will do that.
So the first one is going to be get favorites and it's getting the fun, get favorites like to get my
favorite from their base.
And in this case, here, I'm going to make it so that the list, because we want to receive all of
that as a list of favorites and once a list of white favorite objects in this case is going to be favorite
objects.
But this is not enough because remember, with compose, we need to wrap our data, especially getting
our data, because now we're talking about composer roles that respond to the changes of our data.
We need to wrap this inside of a structure that is structured that will allow this reactivity of our
data.
Now we've seen mutable state.
We've seen other kinds of structured data structure that allow us for that.
Now we're going to use a new one called Flow.
Now I found that flow works really well with a room database, so I'm not going to use mutable state
or anything.
Flow is what works well so far, so I'm going to wrap all of that with flow.
So if you have over this quite an import flow and flow, there we go.
Very good.
Now, there's a lot about flow that I'm not going to get into it, but if you have overseas is an asynchronous
data stream that's sequentially in its values and completes normally or with exceptions and so forth,
right?
And there's a lot about it, and you can read more about it, but essentially think of just a stream
of data that we're going to be stream out to whoever wants to use it.
Now, this is not it, actually, because we need to do something else.
As you know, we are talking about the room, their base.
That means we need to annotate to know to make it known that this is indeed a query we're doing to there
to.
So that it's known that this is indeed a query we are performing to our database.
And luckily, we can do that by saying at query that make sure we get the correct query from the correct
dependency on the correct namespace.
So we want the Android X Room query like this, which allows us to pass, of course, as you know,
by now, certain values and say values.
Core value in this case, in fact, I don't have to pass anything like this, but it's implicit there.
You can see it's a value that we can pursue what easily they were going to pass.
Well, we're going to pass the actual query sequel light sequel query here command that will allow us
to get data from the database.
So all we have to do is just say select all caps doesn't have to go all caps, but I like to follow
that convention and asterisks to say select all and then say from well, from our database.
But how do I get the database?
This is the beauty, because from database is sophisticated, all the classes know of each other.
If you just start typing like f a V, remember this is the name of the table we created earlier when
you created that entity favorite class.
Right.
Very good, so I can just hit enter.
And while I'm so always saying that now, is that OK when this is called get favorites right, it will
know that it needs to go and query the database and get everything from our favorite table and return
a list of favorite objects in a stream of the flow.
That's it.
All right.
Very easy.
Of course, I'm going to create another one here to suspend.
Now this one is suspend because I'm going to create.
I'm going to create a different query that requires to run on the background, OK?
So and also it's not returning essentially a flow.
So a flow will take care of all of the background routines and everything that we usually have to worry
about when we're getting data from anywhere else.
So suspended balance, it gets five by it.
Now we're not going to use this.
I'm just going to give you a full picture here, right?
Let's say I want to get my favorite CD by its side.
The idea is going to be city right string like this pass, and I want to return a favor object.
Of course, I want to do the same thing.
It's going to be a query.
And for the value I'm going to say select.
All.
From our fave table.
But then I'm going to put a clause here say where right, where white, where what city in this case
is going to be equal?
And calling like this equal to City now, this is a syntax, it looks really weird, but what he was
saying here is that we want to get the city where from our table, of course, favor tables where a
city, whatever we're passing here is going to be equal to this city.
Whatever we passing in, our get fast, get fast by it.
OK, so we do the syntax to say we're going to pass a quarter, we're going to pass in actual value
that we want to get from our database, which is going to be a favored object.
So this is syntax weird?
I know, but that's how we do it.
We're going to continue.
Let's go now and insert, right.
Let's say we want to insert.
Obviously, we need to insert something to our database.
Well, let's do that.
When do you suspend function again?
Call this insert favorite.
And I'm getting sort of favorite object.
Obviously, we don't need to return anything, and that's all.
Well, not necessarily because we need to tell, of course, the compiler what needs to happen in the
background.
In this case, I'm going to say insert annotation.
Look how easy this is, right?
So what I can do now here to insert, I could leave it as it is, but I can also say well on conflict.
If there is some conflict trying to insert a stamp that already exists.
All I'm going to do, I'm going to invoke the on conflict strategy and say, just go ahead and replace
that.
So if we inserting a favorite that already exists like Cancun, the database is just going to go and
delete whatever concrete, whatever we had before and insert that new data when you favorite in this
case in your city.
Let's continue.
The next one's going to be suspend also, and this is going to be update favorite.
Again, we're not going to use most some of these, but I'm just going to add them.
So we have a complete picture.
We don't need to report to return anything, which is always nice, but we're going to do the same thing.
I'm just going to go and pass update.
Look at that very easy.
And again, I'm going to pass some information metadata say on conflict again.
I'm going to use a different strategies on conflict strategy and replace like this the same thing we
did there.
Let's make sure a favorite like this and I'm going to continue here.
I say I want to delete because that's one thing that we want to do.
Let's say I want to delete everything.
So I'm going to suspend.
And say delete all favorites.
I need to pass anything to delete everything, I'm just going to put a query in the square.
I'm going to go ahead and add the delete.
From
our fav table, so this will just delete everything from our database, which usually is not what we
want to do, but hey, sometimes one must do what needs to do.
All right.
And the other one we're going to do, which is important also is the delete one favorite because we
actually are going to use this span here.
I'm going to say delete.
Favourite such and going to delete past the favourite object, we're going to be deleting.
And I'm just going to go and say at delete, just call delete and voila.
That's it.
Now looking at this, if this is the first time that you've worked with databases from their base in
Android, you will realize how far we've come in Android because before we had to write a lot of boilerplate
code, a lot of classes, complicated stuff just to get things to work with database SQLite.
This is what we do with Ramdev's, because when that happens again, it simplifies our lives is apt.
It abstracts out all the things that we had to do before all the classes that we create, all these
transactions and so forth.
All we have to do is just pass in the queries as annotation and leave it all to room to deal with everything
in the background.
OK, very good.
So just take time to marvel at all of this.
This should be favorite Typekit.
Let's see.
Favorite favorite, favorite tie.
Wherever that was.
Okay.
All right.
So take your time to marvel at this if this is the first time and this is great.
OK, so next we are going to continue and see where this weather Dow is going to be called and how it
all fits together.
So we still following this structure here right from their base structure to set us to set ourselves
up for success.